Bellabeat Case Study (Using Fitbit Data)
Introduction: 
Bellabeat is a technology company which specialises in health-focused products for women. They have designed and released a variety of products such as the Bellabeat app which helps users track their activity, sleep, stress and Leaf which is a wearable wellness tracker which can connect with the Bellabeat app. 

Business Task: 
We will be looking at the trends of the usage of the FitBut users data. We will look at how this data and identify trends and patterns which can be used to help influence the marketing strategies for Bellabeat customers.  

Data Integrity & Limitations
The Fitbit data was collected via a distributed survey via Amazon Mechinal Turk between March 12 2016 to May 12 2016 (access data via https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit). The data could be considered outdated and not relevant to the present market as it is not current. 
The data is sourced from a 2nd party which means that any insights gained may not reflect the Bellabeat customer’s market. 

Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
I chose to view the data in Excel as the data was small in size. 
I used Excel to format the data to eliminate inconsistencies in the date and to check for any blank data cells by using the filter function. Although there were ‘0’ values, this did not constitute a blank data cell. 
After viewing the data, I chose to analyse the following files: 
daily_activity,
sleepDay_merged, 
hourlysteps

Analysis of Data 
See SQL Code 

Key Findings 
 


 

Users are most active on Saturdays. 
 
Users seem most active between 6PM and 7PM.  
  

Trends & Recommendations
According to the data, users are most active on Saturday and least active on Sunday. The most steps are taken around the 12PM to 2PM and 6PM to 8PM time range. In order to encourage users to be more active overall, daily notifications to achieve a certain number of steps per day will prove beneficial.  
Sleep amongst users does not seem to fall in the recommended 7 to 9 hours with some users having less than 6 hours. Consistent notifications could help users become more aware of their sleep patterns. This notification could also contain a goal to achieve in order to achieve the recommended hours of sleep.  
Sample size small Only 33 Users analysed. For the Sleep Day, there were only 24 users and the weight log only had 8 users. This could signal that users are either not logging in their weight or are not aware of the features. In order to encourage the users to track their weight, a Wi-Fi enabled scale that is compatible with the app could encourage more users to track their weight on a daily or weekly bases. Weekly notifications to prompt the user to input their weight could also be beneficial. 
The same techniques can be applied to encourage users to track their sleep. 
